== cloud-manager

cloud-manager is a Ruby cloud manager library, top to bottom:
* It is a simple Rubust Reliable and Extendable IaaS to manage cluster and VMs in cloud.
* It manages clusters on vSphere to create/start/stop/delete/resize hadoop clusters, at present.
* It will provide fetching resources/cluster placement/cluster deploy services.
* It will provide a pluggable framework to use your own placement algorithm
* It supports vSpere Cloud, now. And it will support EC2 in the future.

== Version Description

  version = 0.5.0

== How hadoop cluster are layout

It uses GROUP to collect same functional VMs to one unit, such as master, worker, client, and etc. Therefore,
in one GROUP, each VM has same configuration. So it places massive VMs in a simple way.

== Placement Idea (round robin)

Currently, It uses round robin strategy to put hadoop cluster's VMs to vSphere Cloud.
It manages five type resources in vSphere: clusters, resource pools, hosts, datastores and networking.
At present, our choose method is "round robin". Firstly, It chooses resouce pools in one cluster. 
And then, it chooses hosts one by one. In one host, It will check free memory size, datastores' free
space and networking resources. if this host has enough resources for placing vm, it assigns cpu, 
memory, disks and networking for vm.

== Getting Started

=== Install

  sudo gem install cloud-manager

=== cloud provider definition

It uses json string to describe cloud provider.

cloud_provider: {
  "name": "vsphere",      # Provider name
  "vc_addr": "FQDN/IP",   # vSphere address
  "vc_user": "administrator", #vSphere user name
  "vc_pwd": "123456",         #vSphere password
  "vc_datacenter": "DatacenterName",  #Accessed datacenter name
#define the cluster:resource pool pair
  "vc_clusters": [
  { "name": "Cluster1",
    "vc_rps": ["resource_pool1", "resource_pool2", "rp3"] },
  { "name": "Cluster2",
    "vc_rps": ["rp-hadoop"] },
  ],
  "vc_shared_datastore_pattern": ["share", "san*"], #define the datastore_pattern for share storage
  "vc_local_datastore_pattern": ["local*", "vmfs*"], #define the datastore_pattern for local storage
#If you want to use fog to connect to cloud provider, write 'fog' here.
  "cloud_adapter": "fog"
}

=== cluster definition

It uses json string to describe cluster definition

cluster_definition: {
  "name": "hadoop_cluster_test",
    "template_id": "vm_template_mob_in_vc", #such like this: 'vm-1234'
    "deploy_policy":"group_parallel", #default is ‘group_parallel’, can choose 'group_order'
    "vc_clusters": [    #Cluster can rewrite the cluster/resource pool requirement
    {
      "name": "Cluster1",
      "vc_rps": ["resource_pool1", "resource_pool2"]
    }
  ],
#Cluster should define networking configuration
    "networking": [{
      "port_group": "CFNetwork",
      "type" : "static", # or "dhcp",
      "ip": ["10.1.1.10-10.1.1.11", "10.1.1.17"], # User can input ip ranges
      "netmask": "255.255.255.0",
      "gateway": "10.1.1.254",
      "dns": ["10.1.100.100", "10.1.100.240"]
    }],
#Cluster can add a filter to select more the datastore pattern like this
    "vc_shared_datastore_pattern": ["share", "san*"],    # Using wildcard to select more 
    "vc_local_datastore_pattern": ["local*", "vmfs?-*"], # datastores, both '*' and '?'
#Cluster define groups in below:
    "groups": [
    {
      "name": "master",   # Group name
      "instance_num": 1,  # Wanted instance number in this group
      "cpu": 2,           # CPU core number
      "memory": 2048,     # Memory size: 2048M
      "storage": {
        "name_pattern": ["share"], # This pattern will overwrite the cluster's datastore pattern
        "size": 10        # Disk size: 10G
      }
      "ha":true
    },
#Another group for 'worker'
    {
      "name": "worker",
      "instance_num": 3,
      "cpu": 1,
      "memory": 1024,
  #group can redefine the cluster:resource pool pair
      "vc_clusters": {
        "name": "Cluster1",
        "vc_rps": ["resource_pool2"]
      }
      "storage": {
        "name_pattern": ["local", "vmfs*"],
        "size": 50
      }
      "ha":false
    },
  ]
}

=== Placement Output

Placement module will output cluster's VMs placement in two dimensional Array, like this:
[[Group1 VM placement], [Group2 VM placement], ... [GroupN VM placement]]

== How to setup UT?

It uses rspec to do UT test. Change path to root of cloud-manager.
place configuration file func.vc.yaml and ut.vc.yaml in current dir
func.vc.yaml describes vSphere cloud provider definition.
ut.vc.yaml describes UT cloud provider definition.

unit test:
spec/ut.config.yaml       #define some options for fog_dummy
spec/ut.dc.yaml           #define a simulated vSphere datacenter, needed by fog_dummy
spec/ut.vc.yaml           #define a simle vc configuration for testing
spec/ut.cluster_def*.yaml #define UT test cases
> spec spec/cloud_unit_test.rb

func test:
spec/func.vc.yaml           #func test vSphere configuration, include user name/password/ip address, etc.
spec/func.cluster_def.yaml  #define func test cases
> spec spec/cloud_func_test.rb

note:
You had better prepare your cloud provider info firstly.
You could place you own func.vc.yaml's full-path to env variable FUNC_CLOUD_PROVIDER_FILE, and 
ut.vc.yaml's full-path to env variable UT_CLOUD_PROVIDER_FILE
for example: 
export FUNC_CLOUD_PROVIDER_FILE='/home/serengeti/cloud-manager/your-func.vc.yaml'

== example

Here is an example of wading through server creation/start/stop/delete for vSphere Cloud:
require 'cloud-manager'

# create a cluster
  IaasTask task = Iaas.create_cluster(parameter, :wait => false)
        # parameter["cluster_definition"] is a Hash object which contains the definition of this cluster
        # parameter["cloud_provider"] is a Hash object, which contains how to login the cloud server and the resource requirement.
        # options[:wait] can make object running in synchronous(wait = true) or asynchronous(wait = false) model

# if caller doesn't care the progress, call this method to wait until this task is finished.
  IaasResult result = task.wait_for_completion()

# if caller cares the progress, call this method
  while !task.finished?
    IaasProgress prog = task.get_progress()
    # you could print out progess info here
  end

# if caller want to know the result of the task, call:
  IaasResult result = task.get_result()
  if result.succeed?
    handle result ... ...
    else
      handle failure ... ...
      end

# start the cluster
  IaasTask task = Iaas.start_cluster(parameter, :options => { :wait => true })
# stop the cluster
  IaasTask task = Iaas.stop_cluster(parameter, :options => { :wait => true })
# delete the cluster
  IaasTask task = Iaas.delete_cluster(parameter, :options => { :wait => true })

== Contributing to cloud-manager

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 vmware. 

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
